Background Reading

1. How do people currently characterize and model social networks?

There are two main types of networks people use to characterize and model social networks:  scale-free networks and cellular networks.  Scale-free networks have specific "hubs" which are the most frequently attached-to nodes.  Cellular networks have well-defined "clusters" of individuals that are each connected on a higher level.

2. What kinds of policies do social networks like Facebook currently support?

There are three main types of information Facebook has about its users:  registration information, user-shared information, and information shared by outside sources.  Privacy on registration information is easily regulated by the user.  Privacy on user-shared information, although customizable, can sometimes be hard to keep track of as it is.  Facebook offers the privacy settings "Public", "Friends", "Only Me", and "Custom".  Additionally, a user can specify for a specific post to only allow a premade group or list of people to view it.  Information shared by others about you can generally only be seen by their friends and your friends, depending on what privacy settings they apply to the information.  Facebook's privacy system, while functional, can sometimes be convoluted.  

3. What kinds of policies should social networks support?

In my opinion, the policies of social networks should be more customizable than they are now.  The user should be able to create different tiers of privacy, customize who has permission to see what tier, and designate which parts of his profile are in which tier.  

4. What are difficulties that social network implementers currently face in creating systems that enforce privacy policies?

The main difficulty, as seen through the example of Facebook, is disorganization.  There has to be a balance between user-friendliness and effictiveness, and I think that Facebook is leaning too much on the user-friendly aspect.


Week 2 Reading Questions

1. What is the goal of the Jeeves programming language?  (One sentence.)

The main goal of the Jeeves programming language is to allow the programmer to shift responsibility for enforcing privacy policies to the system, making it much easier for the programmer to keep track of levels of security and to ensure that no data is leaked.  

2. In 1-3 sentences, describe what Jeeves allows the programmer to do.

Jeeves allows the programmer to specify privacy policies and then automatically have them be enforced.  The system keeps track of who has access to which privacy levels of any given value.  

3. In 1-3 sentences, describe how Jeeves works.

There are two parts to any Jeeves program:  the core program and the privacy policies.  Because these two elements are seperate, they can be worked on independently, then brought together in order to accurately enforce the privacy policies.  

4. What advantages does using Jeeves have over a more traditional language language such as Java or Scala?

Unlike Java or Scala, Jeeves has sensitive values, policies, and contexts.  Sensitive values are values which are only evaluated at output based on the level of access a given viewer has.  Policies determine which people have what level of access to view sensitive values.  Contexts give information regarding how certain sensitive values should be viewed.  

5. What do you think are the biggest technical challenges in making Jeeves a mainstream programming language?

As of now, because of Jeeves' high level of accuracy in enforcing privacy policies, it is not as efficient as some other, less accurate methods of enforcement.  If we can determine how to bring the efficiency of Jeeves to a higher level, Jeeves will be on its way to becoming a mainstream programming language.  

6. What directions would you be interested in taking with Jeeves?

As we discussed in our first meeting, I am interested in the more theoretical side of Jeeves.  I think that modeling and studying social networks would be quite helpful in determining how we can practically apply Jeeves in the future.  
